Not the top 10, not top 5 or 10. But top 20, 25%. And
what is impressive about that is that when you look
at the top 10 or 15, they've been around forever.
And this new college made those quantum leaps. And
I attribute that to the leadership of those two
deans, Hubert and then Corrigan, and the faculty.
Because the faculty came in just running right off
the bat. And they started getting recognition in
publishing and in research. And we got
recognition very quickly. Who are some of those
star faculty members that are worthy of note?
Well, I think in the area of children's
literature, Donna Norton certainly stands out.
Donna Norton is probably the number one figure in
children's literature in the country. Bill
Rupley and Mark Sadowski are probably two of the
leading researchers and publishers in the field
of reading. We've had some highly successful
research and grants people in math education and
science education.
You're talking about the college now? Mm-hmm.
Okay, in the college? Well, certainly, I can't
think of one of the names in Ed Syke that came out
of... He'd been at the University of Nebraska and
came into Ed Syke, but he was a very prominent...
person in that whole field of educational
psychology for life. I can't think of his name
right now. Jim McNamara had established himself
nationally in educational statistics, was well
recognized in that field.
Statewide, probably the early people that would
be recognized would have been because of their
educational administration type background.
You know, the Frank Huberts, the Paul Henslings,
the Les Richardsons. Carl Landis and his whole
effort over in that field with the human resource
research that they were doing, particularly in
the field of smoking, they were, they don't get, I
think, they don't get enough recognition. They
were pioneers. They were the early pioneers in
identifying the hazards of smoking. I can
remember that when I first came to Texas A&M. So
we're talking about 1969, 1970, these guys were
way, way ahead of the game. Are
there some opportunities that in hindsight, are
there some opportunities that we missed? You know
clarity of looking backward or if we had known then
what we know now we would have done this or that.
All right. Let me ask a different way. Can you think
of any individual that we lost or that we didn't get
that we might have gotten or might have kept. I
can't, Haskell. Now, when you talk to other
department heads in other departments, you might
find that. One of the things that I came away with in
that role were the number of people I didn't want
coming to Texas A&M that I would encounter. I
remember the year that I mentioned I hired Jack
Campbell because my interview with him up at
Chicago, Illinois during a national convention.
I had one fellow come in there that was with the
University of California, and he really wanted
that job. And he only wanted five students, one
seminar, and about $15,000 more than I was
offering. Well, I didn't want that type person at
all. And you would run into a lot of people that you
interviewed like that, because they were kind of
prima donnas. They just wanted five students,
five doctoral students, and a lot of money, and
just leave me alone type thing. We were
developing. Yeah, we needed workers. We needed
people that understood what the real world of work
was in education. Did you and your colleagues in
these years, did you all think that progress was
being made? Yes, I think so. I think there was,
especially in those early years, there was a great
cohesiveness. We used to go to Savisa and have
lunch together and just continue our
conversations that may have started at a faculty
meeting. We just continued them out there in the
lunch hour. A lot of cohesiveness. Now, you moved
from the fourth floor, was the fourth floor of
academic? Yes. To? Third floor of academic. Third
floor, and then? And then by that time the new
Harrington Building had opened and we moved over
to the Harrington Building. And that's where you
were until you retired? Yes. Peggy Ritchie and I go
back a long way. Describe her as the key person in
the dean's office. Well, she was extremely
dependable, courteous. You just loved Peggy
Ritchie. If you wanted a secretary in a dean's
office, you wouldn't go beyond Peggy Ritchie.
just just a gem very informative she's very
knowledgeable she knew what was going on and again
I think Dean Hubert relied on her a lot and felt
comfortable giving her responsibilities as a
secretary head secretary and I can't imagine her
ever overstepping her appropriate
responsibility never i don't think i ever heard
her say uh... bad word and negative or have a
negative comment about anyone but i also can't
imagine anybody being able to put one over on her
because she was pretty uh... pretty savvy and
pretty pretty uh... clear-headed uh... let's see
do you remember uh... anywhere in uh... the
department of the country do you remember anytime
where there was just some real snafu. Well, I don't
know. When you say snafu, you mean where things
didn't jive? Yeah, yeah. They were completely off
balance. Yeah, about, I'm going to say about 20
years into the College of Education,
the fragmenting began to emerge. And I think that
maybe that happens after you get a faculty that's
been established and they're moving along with
their program and new faculty are coming in with
new ideas and they want their kind of program, you
know, to emerge and you begin to get kind of a clash
here. I would describe it this way, probably the
first 20 years it was department within a college
and all of our effort was toward the students. The
fragmented segment started when numbers of new
faculty or faculty after a few years wanted
specialization you know don't get me involved
with those other people this is my field very
narrow that's right and and of course they do good
things you know if you're looking for
specialization they have really specialized and
can tell you the the finer things of whatever
they've specialized in but There's a trade-off.
When you go that deep into specialization, you
lose track of what the overall mission and the
overall picture is. And when we celebrated our
30th College of Education 30th anniversary, I
took the lead in writing up the history on the
Department of Curriculum Instruction,
Educational Curriculum Instruction. And when I
finished, I finished with the words, quo vadis,
wherefore goest thou? Because I think that's what
happens. People begin to lose, what's the
mission? What are the objectives? How do we work
together to get there? And you get fragmented
things going on. Now, I'm not going to ask you the
negative. Who were your favorite colleagues? Oh,
there were so many. Gosh. Short time that he was
there, Jerry Salick, because we were involved
from the very beginning with trying to get new
programs started. He left, went up to New Mexico.
David David, Bob Schutz, just really top-flight
people. Jack Campbell, a wonderful guy. The
new faculty that came in, like the Donna Nortons
and the Bill Rupleys and the Donna Wisemans
Sadowskis and the Patlarks and so forth. Just
really fine, fine people. In more recent years, I
only knew him for a short period because I retired,
but Charlie Lamb came into math education out of
the university. He'd been an associate professor
over at UT Austin and came over, joined us as a full
professor in math education. Just really fine.
Because I had been department head, I was
associating with people out in the other
departments, and I just found people like Jim
Boone and Carl Landis and Leonard Ponder and all of
those department heads and people were were
really good people. I think Corrigan and Hubert
both had done a good job in selecting people to
assume responsibilities in those roles and
enjoyed working with them. They were easy to work
with, just easy to work with. You mentioned
continuing conversations from the department on
over to lunch at Sabisa. Yes. When did that start?
When did that begin? Almost immediately, yeah.
And how many years did it go on? Probably a good ten
years. I would say this first signs of fragmenting
didn't come in until maybe... See, Bob Schutz was
department head for ten years, and I would say only
the last couple of years where all of us began to see
it. But I'd say, you know, my time and seven, eight
years under Bob's time, there was a very cohesive
group. And as I say, the fragmented people, the
people that I associated with that
fragmentation, didn't want to do that. They
weren't. interested in having lunch. I think they
were more interested in pursuing their their own
specialization or whatever, you know. I always
worry if those people fall within what I call the
missionary complex. By that I mean the person who
feels that he or she is doing us a favor by being
here, that they've come from a superior
civilization, that we're behind the times, and
they're going to be here doing missionary
service, and then they will return and leave us
peasants. And I always worry about that. I think
there's some truth to that. Now, we've had a couple
people like that who have kind of come in with that
attitude and have left, but have come back. Oh,
good, good, good. And said, this is where I want to
be. But apparently, for whatever reason, they had
to experience that. They had to go through this
missionary approach and saying, you know, we're
coming out of a program that's above you, et
cetera, et cetera, and I'm going back there, only
to find out that when they got back there, that
wasn't. what it looked like when they had been a
student or whatever. And now they wanted to come
back. And they were leaving tenured positions
elsewhere, pretty good positions, just to come
back. Now you served how many years here? Thirty. I
was here thirty years. Thirty years, exactly. Do
you have any advice on this? I've just appointed
you as the consultant. Do you have any advice for
the College of Education today?
I would really like to see them come back to
spending more of a informal, camaraderie
kind of building an atmosphere of cohesiveness
again, like we had those first 15, 20 years, where
we really did have a mission we understood and
goals to be accomplished. And we're not afraid to
be innovative and experimental, if you want to
call it. Because I think in education today, we're
kind of faltering all across the country. And what
worked 20 years ago is still there. And that's not
the case. Things have changed. I think there are
some signs of spurts. Although I'm only getting it
from the outside now because I've been away for
three years. But I'm beginning to see signs where
they're, for example, this whole thrust with the
internet and technology. I'm seeing and hearing
comments by people out of the College of Education
that maybe they are locking into that and
recognizing that this thing is going to be huge.
and it's going to impact education at all levels. I
don't care if it's pre-school years to doctoral
program years. The internet and technology are
going to just have a tremendous impact. And I think
all the research and grantsmanship that's going
on out there now to get into that ballpark. And
they're having some success. They're hitting on
some million-dollar grants out there now in that
field. So I'm glad to see that. But they're going to
have to work at how do you rally then the rest, the
whole, to get behind this as a mission or a goal or
objective type of thing. That would be an
undertaking. Are there some other schools in
education nationally that have made similar
kinds of rapid progress? None really come to my
mind, Haskell. All the time that I was active out
there and even being out of the scene now for three
years, I don't see the rapid growth the rapid
impact that our colleagues seem to have in such a
short period of time. So that in the big leagues,
the University of Texas at Austin and us, is there
anybody else in Texas you'd put in that big league?
Not in Texas. What about in the Southwest? States
around us?
I guess you'd have to include LSU. Okay. But other
than that, I'm just not willing to put any of them in
there. Oklahoma, Oklahoma State, I'm not ready
to, uh-uh. Alabama, all of those. I don't think so.
All right, let's see. I'm getting close to the end
of the thoughts that I had. Are there some topics
that we've not touched on that you wanted to be
sure? You've done a pretty thorough job. In fact,
you've raised a lot of questions that I would not
have even thought to ask about. And of course,
without catalogs and so forth, there were things
that i'm sure i've overlooked are there some
people that that we haven't mentioned that if you
if they could be here today that you'd want to thank
well um all the people i've mentioned yeah but in
addition to any that we haven't mentioned did i
mention don barker yes yeah certainly uh don oh my
Okay, well, all right. Two other things before the
last question. One is, if you have any A&M
related... uh paraphernalia materials pictures
and so forth that at some point you are want to get
rid of i beg you please pass it on to the a m archives
it'll be safer there than any other place that's
good and then the the next last question is let's
make believe that someone came up to you and handed
you a check for a million dollars and there was only
one requirement. You had to pass it on to Texas A&M,
but you could decide how it was spent. What would
you tell A&M to do with it? In other words, what are
your keenest interests at A&M? I think I'd almost
go with scholarships. For whom? Well, coming out
of education, I wanted to go to the College of
Education.
Undergraduates, graduates, rich, poor, special
major? I think I would want to go to... the graduate
level in this whole field of educational
technology because I still see that as the area
that really needs to be tapped in a big way, that
they need to really jump into You know, full force.
I think the others will continue. All the other
programs, I think, will continue. Reading, math,
education, science, ed administration,
educational psychology, et cetera. But unless
they can latch on to that one, I think somebody is
going to take the lead, and they're going to run off
with that. And we would have a chance, I think,
since we're now a pretty well-established
college, that if we started really making that a
high top priority, we could become one of the
leading colleges of education just because of
that. Last question. What feelings are in your
heart for Texas A&M now? Only the dearest. I love
Texas A&M University. I think all of their
traditions and the students, I think the students
still continue to be, for the most part, what I saw
the first 10 years or so that I spent here. And
they're kind of the heart and soul of Texas A&M
University. Let's quit there. Thank you.